The Department of Civil Engineering at Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College was established in 1956 and is as old as the college itself. The department is producing several eminent engineers who are making notable contributions in the planning and execution of Civil Engineering projects in India as well as abroad.
 
The department offers AICTE approved four-year course leading to the Bachelors Degree in Civil Engineering, three two-year full time courses leading to Master’s degree in three major specialisations of civil engineering (viz., Structural Engineering, Geotechnical Engineering and Environmental Engineering) and a part time PG course in Soil Mechanics and Foundation Engineering. The department is also one of the QIP centres of AICTE for pursuing PhD since 2011. The department is also supported under FIST scheme of DST and TEQIP-III of GOI. The department has justifiably provided itself on the quality of its academic programmes and is keeping pace with the latest developments in engineering education.
 
The department is known for its well equipped laboratories which apart from academic research is instrumental for numerous consultancy and testing works. The faculty also renders technical advice on live engineering problems to various agencies in the form of consultancy projects worth crores of rupees.  The vibrant faculty of the department continues to strive loftier by exploring new frontiers of knowledge, imparting the latest technical knowledge to the students and conducting high quality of research. Keeping this in view, the department has initiated the process to establish BIM Laboratory. State-of-the-art software in the area of Building Information Modelling shall be made available, with unlimited access to faculty and students. This is going to enhance capability of students and thus their employability.
